# OpenStack 2025.1 All-in-One Installation with Kolla-Ansible on Ubuntu 24.04 LTS

This guide walks through deploying OpenStack **2025.1** (stable/Epoxy release) on a single Ubuntu 24.04 VM using **Kolla-Ansible**. We will set up an All-In-One (AIO) environment in WMware Workstation Pro 17 with one controller/compute node. All OpenStack services will run in Docker containers orchestrated by Kolla-Ansible. The configuration includes Designate for DNS service with a local Bind9 server.

## 1. Virtual Machine Setup and Networking

Consider disabling Hyper-V on your Windows machine and upgrading VMware Workstation Pro to latest release - this should remove CPU race conditions between virtualization engines.
Type `Turn Windows features on or off` into Windows Search Bar, uncheck **Virtual Mchine Platform** and **Windows Hypervisor Platform**, confirm and reboot the system. 
Disable **Core Isolation** in **Windows Security**, if this is allowed in your PC.

Before installation, verify configuration of **Host-only Network** VMware Workstation Pro **Virtual Network Editor**, create networks if necessary:

- **Host-only Network**: Host-only Network, IPv4 Address 10.0.0.1, IPv4 Network Mask 255.255.255.0, DHCP Server disabled. The Network Name will be something like **VMnet1**

Create a VM with the following specs and network layout:

- in **New Virtual Machine Wizard** select **Custom (advanced)**
- in **Guest Operating System Installation** choose **Installer disk image file (iso)** and select Ubuntu server 24.04.x ISO image
- **Virtual machine name:** `os-epoxy-aio`
- Number of processor set to 8 and number of cores per processor set 1
- Set Memory for the Virtual Machine to exactly 16 GB
- in Network Type select **Use network address translation (NAT)**
- Select recommended (default) I/O Controller Type and Disk Type, choose **Create a new virtual disk** and set Maxim disk size to 100GB, choose **Store virtual disk as a single file**
- Review settings and uncheck **Power on this virtual machine after creation** and click **Finish**

Modify Virtual Machine Hardware Settings by clicking **Edit virtual machine settings** and:

- click on **Processors** and check all options in **Virtualization engine** to enable *Nested Virtualization*
- Add **Hard Disk**: choose recommended Disk Type, choose **Create a new virtual disk**, set size to 120GB and choose **Store virtual disk as a single file**
- Add **Network Adapter**: choose **Custom: Specific virtual network** and select **VMnet1 (Host-only)**, which you have just created
- Add another **Network Adapter**: choose **NAT: Used to share the host's IP address**
- Remove **USB Controller** and **Sound card**

Start the `os-epoxy-aio` VM and perform a **minimized** installation of Ubuntu Server 24.04 on the VM, use `English` as main language. Install system on 100GB disk (!), LVM on root disk is not required for the LAB purposes. Configure only first Network Interface with DHCP only, all other Network Interface will be configured later. Configure default user with **`openstack`** username and password of your choice. The course assumes this username in exercises. Set hostname to `controller`. Check `Install OpenSSH server` option, it's required for the LAB. 
After installation and reboot, login as `openstack` and configure the system as follows:

## 2. Prepare Ubuntu Linux

```bash
wget "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kriscelmer/os_lab/refs/heads/main/2025.1%20(Epoxy)/prep-linux.sh"
bash prep-linux.sh
```

## 3. Deploy OpenStack

```bash
wget "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kriscelmer/os_lab/refs/heads/main/2025.1%20(Epoxy)/deploy-openstack.sh"
bash deploy-openstack.sh
```

## 4. Configure OpenStack Lab

```bash
wget "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kriscelmer/os_lab/refs/heads/main/2025.1%20(Epoxy)/lab-config.sh"
bash lab-config.sh
```

## 5. Shutdown and snapshot the OpenStack Lab VM